ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.1.0	Good morning. The session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in full is included in the ple folder that they have at their disposal. And according to Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as per item on the agenda of this plenary session that we are about to begin. I am sure that two Members have put their vote to the vote for this session and that, unfortunately, also before starting with the agenda, I will have to communicate a new feminicide. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] According to the official data of the Department of Interior, on 16 July she died murdered in Maçanet de la Selva la Margarita. And, in the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate this Parliament's commitment to eradicating any form of violence against women, and also all the effort to age for its record. In agreement with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls for a minute's silence to end today's plenary session at midday, before the palau facade. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and migration policies]] Also in agreement with the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Catalonian Parliament on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies for the reception of migrants, I inform you that, according to official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are a total of 971 people dead or missing in the Mediterranean. And also far from the last few days we have seen again how the virulence of flames has wiped out hundreds, thousands of hectares of our country. That is why I would also like to begin this Ple with a few words of follow-up, of support to all the veins of the areas affected by the fires these days and these weeks. Especially the ones who lost everything. Those who have lost their home and who are now facing an extremely complex situation. I would also like to take this opportunity to show the profound gratitude of this Parliament to all those who fight the fires: firefighters, civil protection, rural agents, ADFs, movements, local police, medical emergency services, Red Cree, mayors, governors, pages, volunteers, everyone. Thank you for always being there; thank you for not failing. We're at the best of hands. But the dedication and professionalism of our fire-emergency system cannot bring down our guard. We live weeks of extreme situation, it's remembered. Extreme situation of fire risk. We have not experienced much and this is yet expected to be long and very hot, so again, we remember that we need to be careful and always bear in mind that the best way to put out a fire is to avoid it being produced. Let's move on, then, to the first point of the order of the day... yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.2.0	President, good morning. To know, why confirm to me if one of the people who delegate the vote is Mr. Lluís Puig, because logically...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.267.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Martin Blanco, popularity is not my goal – it is not my goal. [[Remorse of eyes and laughs.]] In any case, my goal is every day to give the best of my own to take the best decisions and accompany the educational centers so that every time school is of the highest quality, every time it is less segregated, every time we can have a school, structurally, in better condition, because our teachers and teachers do the work they know how to do, that is to educate our infants. That would be my goal, and I assure you it wouldn't be popularity. Therefore, I will not make any decision or act to achieve this popularity. That's what you said: what do we want? I answer what we want, if not, as an education counselor and as a government: what we want is a model of Catalan school that continues to guarantee..., to close it down, because it is the model that guarantees equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion, and it has done so for decades – it has done so for decades. And, therefore, we want a model of Catalan school that does not secrete for reasons of motivation, nor, obviously, language. We want a model of Catalan school where all our children, where all our young people finish the compulsory stage with full knowledge of the català and, obviously, of the castle, and of how more linguistic, better. And that's what's going on, Congressman Martin Blanco, that's what's going on. Sometimes that's what we've been talking about, too, huh? You will not find any young people who have less knowledge in the castle, or who do not have knowledge in Catalan, compared to any education system in the rest of the Spanish State. They won't find him, they won't find any young man who doesn't have castle acquaintances. Therefore, what I was giving to the beginning, and it is what I was referring to when I started my intervention: unfortunately, we will not be surprised, today, either; we will not be pleased with each other and we will not be surprised either, because you are starting to fall apart, because you are starting to lie, because the Catalan education system has no linguistic problem. In fact, during his intervention it seemed to me that for a moment he was saying: "Naturality, naturality. » [[Whispering]] Therefore, we do not have a language conflict. Naturality. I agree: naturality. You say 'as you want' – you say 'as you want' – you just want to – you just want to – you just want to – but, please, with the same naturality I tell you not to invent, then, that there is a linguistic conflict in Catalan schools, because there is no such conflict. I wouldn't have any trouble taking his repte; what happens is that I can't feel him, taking his repte. And, therefore, it's not a por theme; it's a theme that I can't find his grace, I can't find his sense. And so, as you see, I didn't take your turn, among other reasons, because everyone understands me, when I speak Catalan in this hemisphere. And, among other things, what I said to him so far: that, obviously, every person who expresses himself as he wishes, but, like the government of the country, we must ensure that catalá is the language to drive to the country's schools, and therefore that everyone finishes the compulsory stage with knowledge of catalá, castella and how more linguistic, better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.268.0	Thank you very much. So we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
