ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.1.0	MPs, MPs, the session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, this morning will be the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately on the 22nd of August she died murdered in Terrassa, Montserrat, the ninth victim of gender-based violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and old age for its record. In agreement with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this Presidency calls a minute of silence to suspend the plenary session, today at midday, before the facade of the Palau of the Parliament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and migration policies]] I would also like to inform you that, in addition to what is established by the Parliament of Catalonia's Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the reception of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration from the beginning of 2020, there are 558 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the school year 2020-2021]] [[310-00375/12]] We continue with the first item on the agenda of this session, which are the questions to the Government. And the first question is about the beginning of the 2020-2021 school year, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, can you ensure that the safety of school staff and students is guaranteed at the beginning of the school year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.244.0	MPs, MPs, MP Riera, first place... sorry. [[Founding wishes.]] Thank you. First of all, the school, school or nursery will be the safest place for children and young people outside their home – the safest place for children and young people outside their home. Is this going to be a zero-risk spot? No, no, no, no, no, no. We're already after, if there's ever been zero risk, no, now still less. Therefore, thanks to the health authorities, thanks to the experts, thanks to the hospital teams, thanks to the directions of the schools, thanks to the teacher, this will be the case – this will be the case. Because there are maximum health guarantees, there is no more – there is no more. There's no more. We have 12 teams in Catalonia who are investigating. Maybe we'll get some more from here to a week. We will. We have the plan of cracks, which will begin on the 21st: 500,000 cracks in two_months at schools with all their community. We have the Sentinel Schools Project: fifty schools that will 'take a continuous follow-up to see the evolution of the pandemic respect the infants and what measures we have to take, with the guardianship of the Valley of Hebron and the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu. Therefore, sanitary measures, all of them. An important measure is the stable groups, which are as narrow as possible, but the name of the stable group is not important, but the group's stagnation, before the name, and conditions in which this stagnation is guaranteed. What you've been talking about, face-to-face. We've been betting on face-to-face. Hybrid teaching outside the centres is done in very exceptional cases. And in this sense we are of the governments of Europe that have most clearly apostated for presence. Connectivity. A digital plan, in the first course, of 106_million euros, with the ciphers I have donated – with the ciphers I have donated – and with negotiation with international questions for if we can get more material still. Conciliation. You know that we have made proposals from the government and, in particular, work with Greetings, with Work, and Education, some assuming more than our skills oblige us and others asking the State to either take a step or leave us to do so. Because I want to remind them that in some case what we've said to him is, "So we'll do it ourselves. » Because it is obvious that it is the same to take care of the feeding of an infected minor than to take care of the feeding of a minor close contact of an infected minor. It's the same. Socially, the community has no difference. For what it does to the actions with the students who have suffered most vulnerability in this situation, or have already had more than before and have made themselves worse or have already maintained, a plan of 45_million euros, with very concrete actions, destined to the most complex centers, with very concrete actions, most of them following the plan against the segregation of the Synod of Greuges, and other new ones. We have made and will make every effort to ensure that, as you said, Mr. Riera, there are not only schools that are open to certain schools, but also schools that are open to schools that continue to bet for the better education and make the current situation a situation because this better is stronger. And we will, I insist, thank everyone. And thanks to the faculty, thanks to the directions, thanks to diversity, thanks to the understanding that a stable group in a rural school is one thing and that a stable group in five kinds of schools in five blocks of a city is another thing, and that, therefore, it is not possible to make a single instruction, because diversity is also the richness of our school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.245.0	Thank you, Counselor. We called for a vote. We will now vote on the points discussed during today's day. [[Founding wishes.]] Yeah, that's right. I would like to remind you that all Members follow, if you please, the order they have assigned; if not, we will have problems with the voting system. If there's any doubt, let us know. [[Long break.]] Yeah. We are organizing the voting system again because there has been some withdrawal from some delegation and therefore we need to re-adapt the seats in which you will be voting. So, they'll take a few minutes. Thank you. [[Long break.]] All right. So once we're done, let's get to the vote. [[Decree-Law 29/2020 of 28 July, on which presuppositionary measures are taken in relation to the deployment of social welfare activities, the ordering and strengthening of certain social residential and day-care services provided by the Residence Contingency Plan, in order to address the outbreaks of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19, in which the existence of presuppositions in the matter of childhood and adolescence of the Decree-Law 11/2020, of 7 April, in which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to address the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementaries, and in which the Decree-Law 21/2020, of 2 June, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Social Council of the Social Council of the European Council of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the ……]] [[203-00054/12]] The first point to vote is the correspondent to item 2 of the agenda, that is, the Decree Law 29/2020 of 28 July. The vote begins. Decree 29/2020_has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 42 face-to-face or delegates and 23 telematics – against 69 abstentions. And now I have to ask the chamber if any group wants to be dealt with as... – yes? – with the bill of law. [[Pause.]] So let's actually vote if this Decree 29/2020 is dealt with as the bill or not. The vote begins. As there have been 69 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and no abstention, this Decree Law 29/2020 will be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree No. 30/2020 of 4 August, establishing the specific sanctioning regime for failure to comply with health prevention and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 (cont'd)]] [[203-00055/12]] Let's now vote on the third point, which is decree 30/2020, of 4 August. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – against 69 abstentions. In this case, some group wants to process this... yes? [[Pause.]] So we vote for processing as the bill of this law. The vote begins. As 44 votes have been cast in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and 25 abstentions, this decree will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Proposition of the law of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in housing leases (continuation)]] [[202-00080/12]] Let's now vote point 4, the vote on the Proposition of Urgent Measures Act in the matter of yield containment in housing leases. As has been pointed out, the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn items 5, 6, 7, 21, 28 and 47 for this text. In the first place, we will vote together on the two totalities presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Start voting on these items in total. These total items have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – and no abstention. We now proceed to vote on the papers. I, in this case, vote in the first place the item number 3, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 113 against—correspondents to 90 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics—no abstentions. We now vote on the abolition papers submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which are the papers 9, 13, 17, 20, 23, 25, 27, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 41, 43 and 45, and the papers submitted for the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, issues 8, 12, 16, 19, 22, 24, 26, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 42, 44 and 46. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – with no abstentions. We now vote on the 4, 10, 14 and 48 documents presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – 21 abstentions. We now vote on item 18, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It has been rejected, this said, by 36 votes in favour, 94 against—correspondents to 71 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics—, 4 abstentions. Then we proceed to vote now on the compromise items. And, first of all, we vote on transactional item number 1, between item 11, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 6 of the text of the bill. The vote begins. This compromise was approved by 77 votes in favour – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – 57 against, no abstentions. And now we vote on transactional item number 2, between item 15 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 7 of the text of the bill... [[Font wishes and long pause.]] I'm sorry, in the previous vote, I was wrong about the outcome of the votes, huh? And, therefore, I reproduce, now yes, well, the results. We are talking about transactional item number 1, between item 11, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 6 of the text of the bill. The result is 73 votes in favour– 54 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents–, 4 abstentions... [[Founding wishes and pause.]] Excuse me. No, no, no... excuse me: 73 votes in favour, 57 against and 4 abstentions. Yeah? [[Pause.]] I repeat: 73 votes in favour – 54 correspondents from face-to-face and delegates, 19 from telematics – 57 votes against and 4 abstentions – of telematics votes. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's now vote on transactional item number 2, between item 15 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 7 of the text of the bill. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This compromise was approved by 71 votes to 52 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents, 57 against and 6 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the text, which has not been moved. The vote begins. The Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures in the Field of Containment of Returns in Housing Leases has been approved by 71 votes in favour– correspondents to 52 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics–, 59 in..., sorry, 63 against– now yes– and no abstention; 71 votes in favour, 63 against, no abstention. [[Applause.]] And finally, we vote on the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to the totality of the proposal to present the proposal to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies... [[Founding wishes.]] Pardon me, you do not have to vote, because the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has certainly withdrawn it in its intervention. So there's nothing else, no more voting. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
