tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 13th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Zafer Kışkaya, who wants to address the 57th anniversary of the Turkish-German Workforce Agreement. Here you go, Mr. Seçekaya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, signed with Germany on October 30, 1961, were written documents that changed the lives of many of our people, making thousands of people of Anatolia feel their motherland in their hearts. Although it was not foreseeable at the time, these agreements were the first step in transforming both for European countries' communities and for the Turkish community. This was the beginning of the 50 - hour journey from vinegarci to Munich, and the story of the workers who looked at their wives and their children through the misty windows of the wagons. The stories of the migration, which began with a 50 - hour journey, are now over 57. In this immigration story, they all had their minds set on going back to the motherland one day, but it didn't. Because many miles from home, these people who longed for their families and loved ones were victims of the wrong and foreign politics of Turkey at the time. Especially before the AK PARTI rule, we should not be divided with Western countries. With concern, all the problems of the Turks abroad have been ignored and all governments have remained passive until the EC PARTI period. The fact that all transactions in the process of sending out labour force abroad are Turkey's foreign ministry instead of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Employment and Labor Foundation, is also an indication of which window the governments are looking at in terms of Turks abroad. Our people, who have been left alone with their problems in foreign countries for half a century, have been looked down on in the sense of economic sake at first, then security and temporaryity, and continue to look down on them in a manner of describing them as an aggressor, or a groucher. This usual attitude ended with the importance and personal interest of our President to the Turks abroad. In the period of the AK PARTI governments -- with its multilateral foreign policy -- there has now been a process in which the expression "Turkish Outlying Turks" began to be used for both the values of the country they were born in this country and for Turkish cultures that grew up in two major languages, even for the fourth generation of Turks, and institutional policies have been introduced. It is well understood that the Turks who go to this geography are now the main elements of European countries. Busenaleyh, our citizens in these countries should be encouraged to learn the native languages of their country well, to participate in their political life, to continue their economic development, but not to neglect their identity, their culture. Consultation reforms, regulations on foreign foreign foreign exchange and military service, the recognition of divorce decisions without the need to be filed, the reduction of passport fees, the use of Blue Card owners as an interpreter in courts, and the use of blue card as an identity document in banking transactions, the ability of young people living in diaspora to study at state universities and many other issues that we have not yet mentioned in the AK PARTC. One of the most important things we must follow in the coming process is the recent increased attacks on the Turkish diaspora and its organisations by German authorities to take the necessary measures, to clarify the crimes, and to punish the perpetrators. Also, we must be sensitive and careful of the negative Turkey perception created by terrorist organisations such as the PKK and the PKK. It is observed that our European citizens have been subjected to discrimination in the social area, particularly in schools, vocational education, employment, house searching. As discussed in the case of Mesut Özil, it is also damaging the culture of racism and discrimination that our citizens in Germany face in media, institutional and social areas. German authorities are expected to take high-level measures to combat racism and discrimination. In this sense, the situation of our citizens who have been exposed to human rights violations must be monitored and treated as a matter beyond parties. The case process and the final decision in which we have been waiting five years for the original criminals to be punished by the murders of 8 Turks by the ultra-right terrorist group NSU (NSU) is also a concrete indicator of the extent of institutional racism in Germany. Punishment has been not only redemption since history, but also a method of preventing crime. From the beginning of the NSU trial process, it is imperative that public institutions and members be kept out of the scope of investigation and prosecution...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0609	I said ethics, Mr. President, ethics.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0126par0610	There's no ethics, there's no law, there's no ethics. Dear friends, it is 15 a.m. on Tuesday, November 6, 2018, to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
