ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG082.u1	Good afternoon. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament of 19 May 2022, so it is not read. There's no justification for non-attendance and we're on the agenda. The only point of this plenary is the appointment of two senators or senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to replace Ms Elena Muñoz Fonteriz and Mr Juan Carlos Serrano López. Designation of two senators or senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to replace Da Elena Muñoz Fonteriz and Juan Carlos Serrano López
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG082.u2	The agreement of the Bureau and the Speakers' Board of 18 May began the procedure for the appointment of two senators or senators representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia as the replacement of Ms Elena Muñoz Fonteriz and Mr Juan Carlos Serrano López, appointed by this Chamber on 19 November 2019 and on 26 October 2021 respectively and on a proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group. All of this is done in accordance with Article 165(4) of the Rules of Procedure. By resolution of the Presidency of 23 May 2022, candidates for senators representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia were accepted by Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira. The election shall be made by ballot in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Regulation. For these purposes, the House services have drawn up a paper with the name of the proposed candidates, which will mark with a stamp the box of the candidate or of the candidates to whom the support is given. If no box is marked, a blank vote will be considered; and if any amendments, ransomed or any other additions are introduced, a null vote will be declared. When all Members are already in possession of the papers, we shall proceed to the vote, which will be on call and which will be made by the Secretary of the House, Ms Corina Porro. And for this I pray the second vice president and the vice secretary, Mrs. Prado Cores and Mrs. Ortega, who stand next to the urn to pick up the paperwork. Whenever you wish, Madam Secretary, you can start by calling Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG082.u4	The result is the following: votes in favour of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, 41; votes in favour of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, 41; votes in favour of Mr. The voting was favourable. So, having reached the support of the House, Senators are appointed on behalf of the Autonomous Community of Galicia Fr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG082.u5	Here ends this full and we'll start the next one in two minutes.
