ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] There will be an Anniversary Memorial Day of Holocaust Witnesses and heroes from the Holocaust by the chairman of the meeting and representatives of the parliamentary groups, who are Mr. Bukoros, Mrs. Gerovasili, Mrs. Likolis, Mr. Delis, Mrs. Athanasios and Mrs. Bakada. The parties' representatives will speak for five minutes each. "Where there is hope, there is life. It fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again." With these wonderful words from Anna Frank's calendar, we will be honoring this year's International Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Holocaust, a painful milestone that inspires unexpected courage and strength, while at the same time teaching everything we must protect in the future. Seventy-seven years ago on January 27, 1945, the last act of the drama in Auschwitz was played, with the final end of the largest concentration and extermination camp of the Nazi regime. However, the beginning had already been made since the 1920s, with the first anti-Semitism explosions in Europe. In the next few decades, Germany would emerge into a basic stadium of interracial hatred, for it has dealt with the Jewish tribe, morally depriving it of all its fundamental rights and degrading it to an ego of the state's subjects. In time systematic restrictions on education, science and work gave way to mass pogroms, pillaging, disasters and persecutions. From there, at the beginning of the war, we have come to the implementation of the creepy final solution, the so-called 'Hebrew' issue. Massacres, expulsions, torture, forced works, concentration camps, Auschwitz, Belzek, Madanek, Sobibour, Trenblinka and so many others. The disastrous balance sheet. Only in Poland where the world’s largest Jewish community is recorded, three million souls were killed. Greece has mourned over 70% of its Jewish population, as did the Netherlands, Yugoslavia, Hungary, while Norway, Belgium, the Soviet Union and France with Italy. Inside this zombie a million children lost their lives. A witness to their sacrifice and a symbol of Holocaust became a girl, Anna, hidden in the attic of the well-known back home in Amsterdam, who in two years managed to fit all the hopes and dreams of the world in a small calendar. Although she lived in terror to a first person and suffered from the cruelty of war and persecution, the young Jewish girl never ceased to believe in the man and his potential. I believe that all people are good at the bottom of the line, but that is exactly what the phrase 'but nonetheless, I believe that all people are good' shows. The tireless faith and optimism for a future with open hearts and hands united. For all of us, this is a valuable lesson, an incorruptible truth that works over time in the course of history. Especially for us Greeks, and especially this year, which will be a hundred years from the Asia Minor Destroying another disgraceful page in the history of humankind, a atrocity inspired by Adolf Hitler's idol, Kemal Ataturk, is unfortunately a common place that death, uprooting and refugee remains a sad common denominator for humanity. That is why in today's memory, but also every day since our lives, we must honor our victims and be exemplified by their sacrifice, strongly resist all forms of violence and intolerance, defend the righteous of our people with respect and wisdom, honor and remember. That is why we should always keep in mind the lessons of history and should have in our heart the words of a little Jew who said that "it is wonderful to have no need to wait for a moment before it starts to improve the world." Thank you. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with Mr. Bukouros Christos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the term 'holocaust' means the extermination of the six million Jews in Europe. Extermination, genocide, a planned attempt to extinct an entire people. The Greek Parliament, with its unanimous decision of 3218 since 2004, and later with the year 31 of 2005, establishes January 27 as a day of remembrance and honor of the witnesses and heroes of the Holocaust of the Greek Jews. In the same year the United Nations General Assembly introduced 27 January as a corresponding international day. It was January 27, 1945, when the allied troops and in this case the Soviets first arrived at Auschwitz Birkenau and found themselves in front of the unthinkable, in front of the freaky, in front of the inspiring. About seven, eight thousand people, so many had left there, shadows of themselves, some tens of thousands more had moved inside Germany to other camps to be later located by other allied forces. This horror that faced allied troops, facing these hangars remains a spot in human history. Greek Hebrewism paid a heavy blood tax, 86% of Greek communities were lost in the Holocaust. In prosecutions, executions, working battalions, concentration camps, 86%. The community of Thessaloniki paid an even heavier price. However, there were, in the context of the generalized indifference with which this organized extermination of an entire people and some brilliant examples of humanity, braveness and solidarity in Greece have unfortunately been addressed. The most characteristic of all was that of Zakynthos, where 100% of the members of the Jewish community were rescued. When the German commander of the island asked the local authorities to list the names of the Jewish inhabitants of the island, he received a list of only two names. The list was written Metropolitan Chrysostom and Mayor Carer. By bravery these two Zakynthos leaders literally suggested their breasts, offered their own life and managed to save the entire community. Another glorious example is that of the commune of Volos, for which, as a result of Volos and Magnesia, I am very proud. Then German Consul Shepherd, learning about the arrest plan for the Jews of the city, informed Metropolitan Joachim immediately and an escape plan was organised, mainly to Pelion. There were too many Voliots involved in its implementation. As a result, most of the eighty sixty members of the community were rescued. Only a hundred and fifty were lost, those who did not believe in the upcoming danger and those who could not move, who were all lost. Loss reached 26% for Volos community. Much smaller than the other Greek communities. Earlier, ladies and gentlemen, Hebrew Hellenism - and I will conclude this - had taken part in all national struggles. The first Greek officer to fall on the Albanian front, during the Greek-Albanian Epic, Mardecai Frizas - anti-colonial colonel then - with bravery and self-renunciation, on his horse literally, but also Buena Sarfati initially member of the EESC and then of the EAM and later of the fugitive to Palestine. The Holocaust, ladies and gentlemen, has tested the limits of human logic. He snuggled her, overrun her, humiliated her like human nature. People were also human beings, they weren't monsters, they weren't machines, they were people who worked the way we all know. People were victims too. They've been removed from their right to life. As a result, by declaring the due tribute here today from the Greek Parliament, we are constantly asking for reasonableness, braveness and solidarity, in particular, when historical conditions demand it, so that we never live again in a holocaust, never again Nazism. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall resolve the sitting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u386	The meeting for Wednesday, February 2, 2022 at 9:00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continued discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development Law - Greece Powerful Development".
