ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 12 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 941/6-2017, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The deterioration of Classical Education is taking place in Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr. Andreas Loverdus, Member of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Human Rights, asked the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the conspiracy of children. 3. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "fulfilment of the Tomb of the Nation". 4. The Question No 919/31-5-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the condemnation of disciples of the 1st High School of Rethymnon to "social work", due to their participation in student mobilisations. 5. The question by No 929/2-6-2017 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, about the theft of electricity. 6. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 942-6-2017, a topical question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 943/6-6-2017 by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on 'Is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism'? 3. The question by number 924/1-6/2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Court. 4. The question by No 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Athanasios Vardalis, about the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO ABE". 5. Under number 947-6-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "to reopen the Integrated Personal Management System for Personnel Management and B/Training (OPSYD) for those who did not have the time to do so". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Ahmet Ilhan to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the preservation of the 'dyspherics' category of secondary school units of Sapphire and Iasmos Rodopi. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on the topical and urgent questions, which is three for today, I am aware that the fourth question under number 925/1-6/2017 of the first cycle of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of 209 new wind turbines in southern Karyesia threatens biodiversity and economy", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. Also, the first question under number 936-6-2017, first question by the Member of the Dodecanese coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Spatial Travel Tourism" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. It's Mr. Stathakis, who's missing in Kazakhstan. The same applies to the second, with number 940/6-2017, a top-stage question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The significant delays in the relocation of the settlement of Anthrais N. Florinas puts the life of its residents at risk". As you have heard, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Michael Kalogerou. So we begin with our second question, number 971/6-2017, on the need for a second-round question by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, on the need to integrate into the objectives of reducing the problematic debts of small business. Mr. Papadimitriou is here and he'll answer. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, but above all thank the Minister for his presence. Nearly two months ago, I submitted a request for documents to be lodged with the Finance and Finance Ministers and requested the information contained in the 2015 Finance Facility Convention in relation to the objectives of reducing the problem loans. Unfortunately, so far I have not received any response. Oddly from the Ministry of Economy I have received a document from two lines that does not have any competence. It surprises me, but I'm not going to comment on it now. From the Ministry of Finance, no answer was forthcoming, nor did I have the honour to receive. After that, I noticed that there was a series of publications, Mr President, which referred to the fact that a series of large-scale business loan arrangements existed and the smaller loans were paid out. I have therefore sought evidence from which to see how the situation is eradicated. Because it is important and to deal with the problematic loans of small businesses, because these small businesses are a part of the economy and especially with the current Greek economy, where there is complete deindustrialisation and disinvestment, it is necessary to have small businesses. I have therefore seen that there is no provision for quantifying the forecasts available in relation to the annual quarterly or six-monthly reduction in problem loans, so that we know what goes on to be deleted into small enterprises and what goes on to the large ones. And it is worth noting, Mr President, for this reason: the Greek State has committed itself to the banks, essentially those which they will write off, because it is offset by the income tax, the so-called deferred tax obligation, the bank losses forecasts. I think, therefore, that this issue should also be addressed to the Minister if the government takes into account that many applications from small businesses are not met by the banks, while large companies are being met with huge write-offs - I do not want to mention in particular - and if the government intends to take such measures, because, as I said, Mr President, it is possible because it outweighs the losses of banks with deferred tax. The state is therefore one of the three pillars that will regulate these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u510	The minutes of Thursday 6 April 2017, Friday 7 April 2017, the Great Monday 10 April 2017 and the Great Tuesday 11 April 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u511	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.49' the sitting on Monday, June 12, 2017, at 17.00', on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions, and (b) a debate on the question by No. 26/15-2017 question by the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Achilleas Karamanlis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "About the control of the procedure for the collection and reimbursement of sums of SSY, coming from ticketing".
