ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 99th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Tadeja Šuštar Zalar from 16.30 to 19.30, mag. Dejan Židan, Marjan Šarec, Lidija Dijak Mirnik from beginning to 18.30, Aljaž Kovačič from beginning to 11, Yuri Lebe from 17th, Janja Slug to 15.45, Aleksander Reberšek to 14th hours, Mojca Kociper from 9th to 13th hours, mag. Andrej Reich from 9 a.m. to 16 p.m., Marko Bandelli from 17 p.m. on, Vojko Starović, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Alenka Bratušek and Igor Peček until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law governing the position of students within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the 38th Chamber of Members and Members with the first signed Igor Zorčič. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We are separated by just one more step towards a legally well-ordered substantial improvement in the situation of young people, these are those who have decided on a study path that will be intellectuals, experts, managers and will make a decisive contribution to the future of Slovenia as we wish and deserve. The first step towards this goal is, therefore, the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students. This law fully responds to the needs of the student population, which is one of the most vulnerable social groups and which have been particularly affected by the coronal outbreak of the virus and previously by the economic crisis. The categorical statements that we hear in this past reference to how politics cares about students and how efforts to improve their situation are repeatedly made as some empty promise. In fact, since the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students was adopted in 2017, which is also somewhat weak and obsolete in this area has not happened in practice. So today we have the opportunity and the obligation to maintain the interest of young people in studying so that we do not make studies as difficult as the circumstances, economic crisis and crown of the viral pandemic have made them difficult. So today is an opportunity for us to adopt a bill on the regulation of the situation of students, which was introduced into the legal procedure already last July, and due to other laws he had to wait for such a late hearing. Since this is the third reading, I will only mention the essential elements or improvements brought by this proposal of the law. These were designed together with representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, who are also the main initiators and authors of the law under consideration today. So the proposal came from the bottom up and the following logic Nothing about students without students. As key solutions, the law provides for an increase in state scholarships by 20% with a transitional period of up to 2024. Excluding student work income and staff scholarships up to the minimum wage from the calculation of entitlement to social transfers. By doing so, students or their families will no longer be penalized for their work as students. Furthermore, the amount of student food subsidies rises to 3.5 euros. Savings measures introduced more than a decade ago by the so-called ZUJF is still in place, and raw materials are being auctioned and will continue to be auctioned in the future due to all the world conditions, which is reflected in the annual increase in student food allowance, and in recent times more bidders have also decided to cancel contracts on the basis of which students are offered student food. The law also extends the daily use interval of the subsidised diet from 7 to 22 hours, thus allowing more flexible use of this right. In addition, the amount of dedicated funds for the construction of student homes by the State is increasing, and this is also a very important item that will enable students to have easier access to studies. Introduces the so-called ‘studies’. digital student card, limited administrative costs when enrolled in studies so far [[sign for the end of the debate]] disproportionately burdened students. These costs have grown unrestrainedly. Further addressing students with special needs and talented young people more comprehensively and ensuring their equal treatment. In short, there are many reasons why the student population needs a new district law. But we do have a situation where there are no more reasons for today [[sign for the end of the debate]] This law, in the context of which only one nomotechnical amendment has been tabled, would not be supported in a uniform manner. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we have all recognized the opportunity and responsibility to address the student issue and to confirm this in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Well, we all understand that the centre, the content center of this law, is therefore a ban on fracking and I personally support in any case any effort towards abandoning fossil fuels, but as Sasavcan here, I must congratulate Prekmurks on his journey at such a good step, because the acquisition of fossil fuels, colleagues and colleagues is harmful at two levels. One, because fossil fuels, Co2 releases and all the insufferable and climate chaos that comes with it, the other is only the acquisition of fossil fuels; not only the use, but the acquisition of fossil fuels in the region, which requires its tax, which destroys not only the ecological region, but, as a result, the destruction entails its social map, economic and so on and so on and so on. I think that Zasavje is a fine example of this, after decades and centuries of mining, still looking for a new regional identity after twenty, thirty years of abandonment of fossil fuels, and asking what to do with the economy that is grazing, what to do with tens of thousands of people, with their jobs, [[sign for the end of the debate]] with their social status? And this is the question of a fair transition in practice that we have to ask ourselves in Zasavje, Prekmurje, in Pomurje or anywhere in Slovenia and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present for 54 votes against none [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 99th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
