ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Klaudija Markež, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer, Mr. Ivan Hršak from 3 p.m. on, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Jože Tanko, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mag. Branko Grimes. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Petr Macko, to further explain the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The proposed decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor changes the seat of the Medical Faculty, which moved to a new building on Taborska ulica 8, Maribor, before Slomškov trg 15. In addition, the headquarters of the Faculty of Tourism, which changed the title of the seat on the Road of the First Fighters 36 in Brežice, before the Market of Evictions 12, Brežice. The name of the Faculty of Construction in the Faculty of Construction, Transport Engineering and Architecture is further changed, which describes the field of study and research activities of the Faculty on the proposal of the University of Maribor. Finally, in a decree with the Statute of the University of Maribor, a number of areas are aligned with the areas which have been added to the Statute on the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Dear President, all of you, good-bye! In mid-January this year, the members of the Commission of the National Council for the Control of Public Finance, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' audit, found that the country was not effective in drawing on European funds for flood measures. In principle, the Desus Group agrees with this finding, but flood protection is not the only area where the Republic of Slovenia is unsuccessful in drawing on European funds. Despite the efforts of the Environment Ministry, flood protection is still not sufficient. We are of the opinion that before today's debate we should wait for the Ministry of Environment and Space's response report, which will give us answers to most of the questions raised by the Commission's conclusion. We will find out what measures to reduce the flood threat the Ministry has already taken and what further steps it is preparing. We will be able to read the measures relating to the preparation of projects for the new 2014-2020 programming period, and medium- and long-term plans for flood safety measures, changes to place more effectively in space and to reorganise the water sector are also being prepared for the ILO. The resources available have not always been used sufficiently carefully. Under the Operational Programme on Environment and Transport Infrastructure for the 2007-2013 programming period, €66 million was allocated for the purpose of water regulation. All funds are distributed and investments are being developed in areas where flood threats are the largest. The Ministry recognises that the implementation of flood safety projects has indeed taken place later than it would have wanted, not in the search for culprits, but in all its efforts to implement projects to ensure that funds are spent in line with the deadlines foreseen. In its audit, the Court of Auditors concluded, inter alia, that at the beginning of the previous financial perspective, there was no basis for the preparation of projects and that in the first three years of the perspective the Ministry did nothing on these projects. The country has notified three projects for European co-financing with delay, the upgrade of the Beber Water Analysis System and the anti-floating measures in Savinja and Drava. By the end of 2013, 22.5% of the available resources had been used for these three projects. As we were informed at the meeting of the Commission, they are counting on the Ministry to draw 62 of the €77 million available for these projects. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to the inefficiency of the State in the collection of concession fees and water rights that fill the water fund and in the use of funds for regular activities in flood-prone areas. We estimate that one of the key reasons for poor flood safety is that water fund resources are not used for the purpose for which the fund was established to build anti-flood infrastructure. According to the Visionary Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, the bulk of the resources collected from the water fund are intended for the completion of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. Thus, between 2004 and 2014, €294 million was raised in the water fund, with 150 million being diverted to the construction of these projects and 53.5 million unintendedly spent in the past decade. Desus fully agrees with the Court of Auditors' conclusions that there will be a need to reform a number of things – I will end with the fact that the Group of Members will vote against most.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the decision and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting forward a proposal for a decision and an amendment from the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. Dear citizens, allow me to congratulate you, like Members and Servants of the National Assembly, on the International Women's Day. However, I call on citizens, Members and civil servants of the National Assembly to do everything in our country, and therefore also yours, the power for real equality and gender equality everywhere and every day. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday 9. Three o'clock.
