ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue our 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's session cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Matjaž Han from 1300 hours away, Ivan Jelen, Miran Jerič, Dušan Kumer, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Breda Pecan from 10.00 hours away, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Janko Weber and Mag. Anton Rop. Before we proceed to the decision-making of the National Assembly, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. Given that there are no comments on the operation of the devices, I will not take any further complaints into account. We continue to break the 1st item of the agenda - we are considering the 2008 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the 2008 budget rebalancing. We will support it because we believe that the 2008 budget, as well as later in 2009, is development-oriented because it foresees an increase in R & D resources because it invests a lot in more coherent regional development in terms of building local infrastructure, as regional R & D facilitation is increasing. We will also support it because the budget foresees lower public spending by 3% of GDP, which represents about a billion euros. The only problem we see in the parliamentary group is inflation, which is conditioned by a higher price of oil and food and is a problem that is also present in the rest of Europe. However, we are confident that the problem of inflation will also be resolved by spring next year. We have been somewhat concerned about the use of European funds, but we are convinced that European funds, according to the Minister for Local Self-Government, are on the right track. We also see a very important and positive budget in terms of employment. I think the budget is so that the unemployed will be even less. The budget is also very good in the area of education and education, or in the field of family policy, where it creates conditions for a better demographic picture. This is how we see in the 2008 budget of the rebalancing and also for 2009 a positive picture, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u716	Bell, Leo, Petrol, Friday, ladies and gentlemen, this is the danger of today. I don't mean you, Mr. Miro Friday. Neither do you. That's the danger of today. And the things you're doing in that decree today, you're giving the condition that finally customerism, the corruption that comes from the cabinet of the President of the Government, will not grow in all of its barbecues, is not yet in the last three years. I believe you know people around you, but don't close your eyes. It's state property. Don't let it happen, but be so brave if Minister Bajuk doesn't have it so that he can finally get up, I know he knows things. But you all keep your eyes closed. You're just confirming things that, at some declaration level, you're saying are wrong and should not be happening in our country or society. But by pressing "yes" for this kind of decree and similar decrees, gentlemen, you allow customerism and corruption. All these stories that are now taking place in the newspaper around the Laško Brewery are "passengers". It's a dirty laundry now. Today and here are the stories that are happening, and you're allowing them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u717	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night!
