ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u199	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, there is a great deal of talk about illegal affairs related to the management of the emergency of immigrants and the resources which, it seems, more than being diverted to welfare services, feed clientele and ill-doing. It escapes, however, a little 'to all that behind this there is also a lightness of the State in not having understood well what the privatization of the Italian Red Cross would have meant. The current situation is confirming that the failure of the public presence of the Red Cross in sensitive sectors such as the management of reception centres lends its support to the degeneration of the business of immigrants by private individuals, because it remains discovered an area of action previously within the competence of the Red Cross and currently at the mercy of private subjects, each, of course, with its own desires. An example of this is a Roman campsite used as a reception centre, whose management was entrusted by the prefecture to a cooperative. The latter, not having the skills and the tools, I understand that it involved, without legitimacy, both volunteers of the Red Cross specialized in the field, that therefore at the moment work at a tight pace, and many employees of the provincial committee of Rome of the Red Cross. Therefore, we are faced with the paradox of a Red Cross subcontracted by a private society to which the State recognizes funds. I really think it is appropriate to reflect with the Government on what is happening - which I have denounced even in parliamentary acts - also because, as always, the most needy citizens pay for this miscalculation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u200	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.47 p.m.
