ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10.32 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u2	[[He stands up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, my most cordial greetings and best wishes to all of you who sit in this House, with special, affectionate attention to those who enter it for the first time; to all of you who sit here, thanks to the consensus and trust of the electoral citizens, whatever the political force each one has been called to represent. This 18th legislature is born of a wide and passionate electoral participation and our reference point can therefore be today only the expressions of the popular will that have clearly resulted. The vote of 4 March reflected a strong change in the relationship between Italians and politics, which had been characterized by not a few years. It was a vote that not only overwhelmed certainties and expectations of long-established political forces in the country's institutional and government structure. It questioned traditions, visions and sensibilities that had long prevailed. The voters have extraordinarily rewarded the political formations that have expressed the positions of most radical protest, of real breakup compared to the past. The protest resulted from strong social reasons: inequalities, injustices, impoverishment and backwardness in the condition of vast classes including families of the people and the middle class. In a particular way, it weighed the sense of a chronic, intolerable imbalance between North and South, such as to generate a rampant rebellion in the southern regions, as expressed in the vote. They have been condemned en bloc, also for the too many examples given by them of clientelism and corruption, the ruling circles and groups have long been weary rulers in those Regions. These reactions showed how little he had convinced the self-exaltation of the achievements of governments and majority parties in recent years. In general political terms, it has counted a lot in the electoral choices that citizens have heard the old parties, the traditional parties, far away and closed compared to the suffering personal events of many and widespread feelings of insecurity and alarm. All this must be linked to the time we are living: it is the time of globalization, instability and the general crisis of politics in the countries of the West; it is the time of incessant, shocking changes in world balances; changes increasingly difficult to master. From here, the anxiety that is rampant among the Italians. On the national political scene, the vote of 4 March resulted in a clear watershed to the clear advantage of the movements and coalitions that have made a resounding leap forward in the consent of the voters and that therefore, in fact, are today candidates to govern the country. At the same time, the party that had led three executives in the last legislature suffered a drastic defeat and was rejected to the opposition. However, difficulties arise from the fact that none of the forces awarded by the electorate has won the absolute majority of the seats in the two Chambers. However, it is necessary to correspond to the choices of the electoral corps and to outline the way for the country's near future. Some elements may contribute to broadening the horizon. It is essentially a question of relying on the general interest of Italy. It is based primarily on the sense, which must not be lacking, of a common Italian and European destiny. As far as this too is concerned, nothing can be said to be irreversible or obvious. Indeed, for a large part of the voters, Europe has appeared more like a set of constraints than a set of ideals and opportunities. It has appeared to be marked by divisions and uncertainties in the face of the wave of asylum seekers and the issue of immigration, but all this does not mean that Europe remains the only anchor for an Italy that wants to count in the global world. With the European institutions, the new Italian government and opposition forces will have to discuss and assert their proposals on the guidelines to follow, already shortly in Europe. But within the essential framework of legal relations and international interests that no one can think of starting from scratch, also because European integration must be conquered that in our deepest feelings belong to us and that none of us can, lightly, let them dissolve. Conquests of peace, economic development and social quality, civil rights; achievements today unfortunately exposed to extreme risks, not excluding the same basic conquest of peace. To deal with these unknowns and complexities is undoubtedly the general interest of Italy, which can be shared by those who represent Italy in the new Parliament, even though they represent Italy from opposite sides. I would add that, in the further development of the institutional political confrontation on the basis of the vote of 4 March, the common good to guarantee the country - whoever is called to govern - is non-violence. Violence must be avoided in all its motivations and forms. We know where they can lead the spirals of violence. Let's not forget the '70s. We have just remembered the anniversary of the massacre of Via Fani and therefore of the kidnapping and tormenting imprisonment of Aldo Moro, until his barbaric killing. We are left with and dear to us the precious legacy of his self-critical reflection, of his message of freedom and dialogue. Political confrontation must also be freed from any nostalgia or indulgence towards the regime of violence that has dominated Italy for twenty years with fascism. Finally, it is worthwhile and important that the forces ready to govern the country on the basis of the consent of the voters have declared that they want to assume their responsibilities, in the sense of avoiding any destructive drift for the country. Certainly in order to open, in the current scenario, new perspectives to the country are essential together respect for the popular will and respect for the prerogatives of the President of the Republic to which I address, on behalf of you all, the warm expression of our esteem and trust. [[General applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the subject of making our democracy more participatory and efficient through all the channels of reform that we can go through is the subject of this parliamentary term. The first reform that has been achieved is that of the Rules of Procedure of our own Senate, because ours, we cannot forget, is a representative democracy in its ideal and functional foundations, which corresponds to a parliamentary form of government. This was, and remains, the meditated choice of the constituent assembly. Our duty is to strengthen that choice that has no sustainable alternative. In the ideal wake of the Republican Constitution, dear senators and senators, any evolution and transformation called for by the wider expression of the popular will can be put to the test. Thank you for your attention. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Saturday 24 March, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.33 p.m.
